OK, so let's create a couple converters here, because remember in our note model, we have the date
which will need a converter as well as the utility.
Let's start by creating a new package.
It's called Issue two for utilities utility.
Such right in inside.
Here we're going to create first first class here.
Let's call this.
Let's call this date converter or such.
And there we go.
So what are we going to do here?
First, we're going to create two functions.
The first one is going to be the time stamp from date.
So we're going to convert from the date into something that isn't a date right in this case is going
to be a long time.
So put all of that for us.
So first, I'm going to add this type converter
as such.
OK, and then create the function can name it, whatever we want.
But these names that make sense are important.
So from date, in this case, we're going to pass in a date time and I'm going to just return along
because this is just going to be a time stamp, right?
A Unix time stamp when it passed that they're OK.
And what I'm going to return in this case, I'm just going to return this date that time.
OK, so from time stamp into the actual data times, if you have over here, this is going to be the
type.
Let's go ahead and have it over.
OK, there you go, and next one I'm going to create, it's going to be the same thing at type converter
again.
So it's going to be date time stamp like this.
And what do we need to pass it this time stamp?
Which is going to be a long time, and we're going to return a date.
I'm going to make this Nullarbor like this and can say, return this case now and return the actual
date and pass in the time stamp that we're passing to create actual date.
Right?
And going to create another one, we need for our you I.D..
So you u i d converter.
OK.
Same thing at Thai composure.
So the first function here say from you, you I.D..
Right, and we're going to return a string to return you I.D. and passing to a string like this.
OK.
And the other one is going to convert the other way around.
So again, at times converter.
And you, I d from stringing
like that, and we're going to return, of course, ID type.
OK.
Return.
From String and Paso, a string like that.
Right.
So we have to do this now, how do we make it so that these converts are recognized when we create our
table so that room will understand, OK, whenever we want, then to add something to this table or
database, we are going to use this converters to convert those types so that we don't have issues that
way.
Room doesn't complain as it has been doing.
What do we do now is we go to our database class.
Remember that no database.
So let's go ahead and get note database first one.
Here we can pass those type converters.
I forget so I can just go like they say at Typekit converters.
So these will be passed along when the database is called to create itself.
So I'm going to go ahead and say database.
Well, actually, it is going to be a date converter say, class.
And then when I pass you, you I d converter and it's, of course, a class type, oops, this has to
be class lowercase like this.
And that's it.
So if you have any type that room doesn't know that exist or it doesn't know how to handle it, you
will have to create those converter classes at such rate from one form to another and then you go to
your database class.
That he created in this case was an abstract class, and he just passed past there at Typekit voters
and again passes many converters that you may need.
That's it.
Okay, let's go ahead, and hopefully this will solve our problems because we want to see some action,
want to see things working, let's clean everything up first and let's go ahead and run once again.
And fingers crossed, let's make sure this.
Let's hope that this works.
And yet we haven't had a problem, he says, here to use quality in features, you must add.
Katie artifact from room al dependency so and road room talks like this?
Right, right.
This is again another revelation here.
Ladies and gentlemen, this is good because we are learning that things don't always work as we want
them, so I'm missing a few other things.
That's the thing because we're using Caitlin and we want to use scuttling extensions here.
We need to pass those as well.
So what is that?
I need to pass?
Let's go.
We have room.
He says the Android X Room, Katy X.
So I'm just going to put some here.
There we go.
This is what we need, so.
All right, let's go ahead and sync.
Now, the beauty, as you see it tells us, whenever there is a dependency lacking, the compiler will
always gives us good hints for the most part.
All right.
Let's see.
Let's go ahead and run.
We're getting close.
As you see here, the app is running out now.
Let's see if this actually works, because that's actually what you know.
What are we looking for here?
Let's say hello.
And in this ad, and voila, it's being added, I say new item.
Next time and everything is working, let's see if we can delete by tapping tap and voila, it's done.
Now I can get out of this app altogether and stop everything.
The idea is that because we are persisting data using room, if we run this app again, we should at
least see one item being loaded.
And as you see, there it is that one item that is persisted was persisted and is looking really good
now.
The other thing you notice here is that we got rid of the time stamp, meaning we don't see the time
there when this was added so we can go back to.
I believe it's going to be our main.
Let's get rid of all of these.
We'll see that at the bottom because we are having these issues earlier.
Yes, there we go.
Now we can just go ahead and oncoming that we still have some problems because this formatting is not
going to work because we've changed a few things.
No problem.
What do we need to do is because we need to get whatever we getting from our note to into date and get
it formatted that will get us where we want to see.
So for that, we are actually going to create instead of retail here, let's create another.
Folder of another file.
Just going to be a file, the say call this utils.
And here we're going to create a function.
I'm going to say fun and say format date.
So what are we going to do is we're going to get the time.
In this case, the time's going to come along because that's the time stamp.
It comes as a long tape and they will want to get a string so formatted date.
So I'm going to say foul, get the date right.
So you can see date.
And let's say this have date there, and then I'm going to pass our time.
So this will convert this long time stamp into an actual date.
OK.
And then I'm going to use file format and then I'm going to invoke this simple.
Date format from Java text, and then here I'm going to pass the pattern because the way because I want
to because I want to instruct our formatter here what kind of or how am I going to show this date?
So there's a lot of different ways to show a date when to use this one?
Eat.
A., D. M. and a h, h and M and then A's like this.
So this is how I'm going to format our date.
And then here I'm going to pass the locale also long say look.
Could get to default.
OK, so default of the application.
All right.
And then I'm going to return this case for format.
Like this that format and then pass our date, it can pass, let's see.
So now let me just get rid of all of this.
Let's just say format date and pass out a note that entry date.
And just to time like this to get to the actual time long, which is the type we need for out from my
date and everything should be good.
OK, let's go ahead and run now.
We should start seeing the date.
And there it is, Sunday in October at four to eight p.m., So if you add something else here, save,
you can see now all of them have data attached to them.
OK, very good.
All right.
So we did it.
So we were able to put together an entire application, a note application that's very simple in nature,
but we learned a lot at this point.
One thing you can do is to make this even better in a sense that you can change the user interface,
perhaps make the text a little bit better or add more functionality to it.
Because you remember, in our note view model, we have, for instance, the update.
How do you update a note so you can figure that out, maybe make it so that when this is long pressed,
then we're going to take all of the information, like the title and description back to our fields
and then change this save to.
To update, right, so do users know that they can update and then the user will be able to update,
of course, the title ending out and then the update and then of course, they can see the changes like
that.
So there's a lot of things you can do because now we have the infrastructure that's set up for us to
do that.
OK, so it was a long journey, and I hope you enjoyed it.
I hope you've learned a lot.
So and if there are things that are not really computing right now, it's OK to go back and rewatch
these videos and maybe ask questions and really take the time to think and try to kind of study this,
this section a little bit longer.
We've talked about a lot of things, especially when it comes to how to structure your applications,
as well as DIY or dependency injection using hilt.
So take your time, and there's still a lot to learn.
Of course, they couldn't put everything here in one section when it comes to health and so forth.
But but it's a good start.
One thing I would like you to think about or keep in mind, is that yes, it takes a little bit of work
to set up health and make sure that everything is good and put together that structure we talked about
for our room database.
But it's worth it.
As you see now, it's way easier for us to extend this app to do all sorts of things to make this app
as complex as we possibly can make it because we have that base infrastructure set up correctly.
So think about that takes a little bit of work for it to set it up, but it's worth it, and you should
always opt to do this way.